Skip to main content
CU-LMS
Home
Dashboard
My courses
7
Edit mode
 

Experiment-2.3
CONT_22CSH-380 :: DATA MINING AND WAREHOUSING
Experiment-2.3
Experiment-2.3
Completion requirements
Mapping of Course Outcome with Experiment 2.3

CO2: Demonstrate the strengths and weaknesses of different methods of meaningful data mining.

Experiment 2.3
AIM OF THE EXPERIMENT: Write a procedure for Visualization for Weather Table.

Description:

This program calculates and has comparisons on the data set selection of attributes and methods of manipulations have been chosen. The Visualization can be shown in a 2-D representation of the information.

Creation of Weather Table:

Procedure:

Open Start → Programs → Accessories → Notepad
Type the following training data set with the help of Notepad for Weather Table. 
@relation weather
@attribute outlook {sunny, rainy, overcast} 
@attribute temperature numeric
@attribute humidity numeric 
@attribute windy {TRUE, FALSE} 
@attribute play {yes, no}
@data sunny,85,85,FALSE,no sunny,80,90,TRUE,no overcast,83,86,FALSE,yes rainy,70,96,FALSE,yes rainy,68,80,FALSE,yes rainy,65,70,TRUE,no overcast,64,65,TRUE,yes sunny,72,95,FALSE,no sunny,69,70,FALSE,yes rainy,75,80,FALSE,yes sunny,75,70,TRUE,yes overcast,72,90,TRUE,yes overcast,81,75,FALSE,yes rainy,71,91,TRUE,no
After that the file is saved with .arff file format.
Minimize the arff file and then open Start → Programs → weka-3-4.
Click on weka-3-4, then Weka dialog box is displayed on thescreen.
In that dialog box there are four modes, click on explorer.
Explorer shows many options. In that click on ‘open file’ and select the arff file
Click on edit button which shows weather table on weka.
EXPECTED OUTPUT:
Training Data Set → Weather Table


2D PLOT MATRIX:




Procedure:

Open Start → Programs → Weka-3-4 → Weka-3-4
Open the explorer and click on Preprocess, then a new window will appear. In that window select weather.arff file then the data will be displayed.
After that click on the Visualize tab on the top of the Menu bar.
When we select Visualize tab then Plot Matrix is displayed on the screen.
After that we select the Select Attribute button, then select Outlook attribute and clock OK.
Click on the Update button to display the output.
After that select the Select Attribute button and select Temperature attribute and then click OK.
Increase the Plot Size and Point Size.
Click on the Update button to display the output.
After that we select the Select Attribute button, then select Humidity attribute and clock OK.
Click on the Update button to display the output.
After that select the Select Attribute button and select Windy attribute and then click OK. 
Increase the jitter size
Click on the Update button to display the output.
After that we select the Select Attribute button, then select Play attribute and clock OK.
Click on the Update button to display the output
EXPECTED OUTPUT:










Learning Outcomes:

Learnt about data visualization techniques
Gained hands-on experience with WEKA's visualization features for attribute plots and histograms
Learnt about different functionalities of different visualization plots
Learnt to visually analyze relationships between weather attributes and target variables
VIDEO LINK:



OTHER RESOURCE MATERIAL/WEB LINKS:

https://www.tutorialspoint.com/weka/weka_quick_guide.htm
https://www.javatpoint.com/weka-data-mining ;
https://cobweb.cs.uga.edu/~khaled/DMcourse/Weka-Tutorial-Exercises.pdf
REFERENCE BOOK:

Bhatia P. Data mining and data warehousing: principles and practical techniques. Cambridge University Press; 2019 Jun 27.












Last modified: Sunday, 12 January 2025, 8:34 PM
Previous activity
Jump to...
Jump to...
Next activity
Contact us
 
Follow us
    
You are logged in as Sanchit Wadehra . (Log out)
