Skip to main content
CU-LMS
Home
Dashboard
My courses
7
Edit mode
 

Experiment-3.1
CONT_22CSH-380 :: DATA MINING AND WAREHOUSING
Unit-3 (Practical)
Experiment-3.1
Completion requirements


Mapping of Course Outcome with the Experiment 3.1
CO3: Apply association rule, classification, and clustering algorithms for large data sets.
CO4: Evaluate and employ correct data mining techniques depending on characteristics of the dataset.
 Experiment 3.1
AIM OF THE EXPERIMENT: Write a procedure for k-means Clustering algorithm using weather data set.

Description:

Clustering

Clustering is the task of grouping a set of objects in such a way that objects in the same group (called a cluster) are more similar (in some sense) to each other than to those in other groups (clusters). It is a main task of exploratory data mining, and a common technique for statistical data analysis, used in many fields, including pattern recognition, image analysis, information retrieval, bioinformatics, data compression, computer graphics and machine learning. 

K-means Clustering
k-means algorithm can be used to partition the input data set into k partitions (clusters). k-means clustering is a method of vector quantization, originally from signal processing, that aims to partition n observations into k clusters in which each observation belongs to the cluster with the nearest mean (cluster centers or cluster centroid), serving as a prototype of the cluster.

Creation of Weather Table:
 Procedure:

Open Start → Programs → Accessories → Notepad
Type the following training data set with the help of Notepad for Weather Table. 
@relation weather
@attribute outlook {sunny, rainy, overcast} @attribute temperature numeric
@attribute humidity numeric 
@attribute windy {TRUE, FALSE} 
@attribute play {yes, no}
@data sunny,85,85,FALSE,no sunny,80,90,TRUE,no overcast,83,86,FALSE,yes rainy,70,96,FALSE,yes rainy,68,80,FALSE,yes rainy,65,70,TRUE,no overcast,64,65,TRUE,yes sunny,72,95,FALSE,no sunny,69,70,FALSE,yes rainy,75,80,FALSE,yes sunny,75,70,TRUE,yes overcast,72,90,TRUE,yes overcast,81,75,FALSE,yes rainy,71,91,TRUE,no
After that the file is saved with .arff file format.
Minimize the arff file and then open Start → Programs → weka-3-4.
Click on weka-3-4, then Weka dialog box is displayed on the screen.
In that dialog box there are four modes, click on explorer.
Explorer shows many options. In that click on ‘open file’ and select the arff file
Click on edit button which shows weather table on weka.
EXPECTED OUTPUT:

 Training Data Set → Weather Table





Procedure for Decision Trees:

Open Start → Programs → Weka-3-4 → Weka-3-4
Open explorer.
Click on open file and select weather.arff
Select Cluster option on the top of the Menu bar.
Select Choose button.
click on SimpleKMeans.
Click on Start button and output will be displayed on the right side of the window.
EXPECTED OUTPUT:


Learning Outcomes:

Learnt about fundamentals of unsupervised learning that is, Clustering techniques
Learnt about exploratory data mining
Learnt about implementation of k-means clustering
Developed skills to analyze and interpret cluster centroids and their attributes
VIDEO LINK:



OTHER RESOURCE MATERIAL/WEB LINKS:

https://www.javatpoint.com/weka-data-mining
https://www.javatpoint.com/k-means-clustering-algorithm-in-machine-learning
https://www.tutorialspoint.com/weka/weka_quick_guide.htm
REFERENCE BOOK:

Bhatia P. Data mining and data warehousing: principles and practical techniques. Cambridge University Press; 2019 Jun 27.


Last modified: Sunday, 12 January 2025, 8:36 PM
Previous activity
Jump to...
Jump to...
Next activity
Contact us
 
Follow us
    
You are logged in as Sanchit Wadehra . (Log out)
