Skip to main content
CU-LMS
Home
Dashboard
My courses
7
Edit mode
 

Experiment-3.2
CONT_22CSH-380 :: DATA MINING AND WAREHOUSING
Experiment-3.2
Experiment-3.2
Completion requirements


Mapping of Course Outcome with the Experiment 3.2
CO3: Apply association rule, classification, and clustering algorithms for large data sets.
CO4: Evaluate and employ correct data mining techniques depending on characteristics of the dataset.
CO5: Verify and formulate the performance of various data mining techniques according to the dataset.
 

Experiment 3.2
AIM OF THE EXPERIMENT: Write a procedure for Density based Clustering algorithm using weather data set.

 Description:

 Density based clustering
 In this clustering, clusters will be formed by segregation of various density regions based on different densities in the data plot. Density-Based Spatial Clustering and Application with Noise (DBSCAN) is the most used algorithm in this type of technique. The main idea behind this algorithm is there should be number of points that contain in the neighborhood of a given radius for each point in the cluster.

 Creation of Weather Table:

 Procedure:

Open Start → Programs → Accessories → Notepad
Type the following training data set with the help of Notepad for Weather Table. 
@relation weather
@attribute outlook {sunny, rainy, overcast} @attribute temperature numeric
@attribute humidity numeric @attribute windy {TRUE, FALSE} @attribute play {yes, no}
@data sunny,85,85,FALSE,no sunny,80,90,TRUE,no overcast,83,86,FALSE,yes rainy,70,96,FALSE,yes rainy,68,80,FALSE,yes rainy,65,70,TRUE,no overcast,64,65,TRUE,yes sunny,72,95,FALSE,no sunny,69,70,FALSE,yes rainy,75,80,FALSE,yes sunny,75,70,TRUE,yes overcast,72,90,TRUE,yes overcast,81,75,FALSE,yes rainy,71,91,TRUE,no
After that the file is saved with .arff file format.
Minimize the arff file and then open Start → Programs → weka-3-4.
Click on weka-3-4, then Weka dialog box is displayed on the screen.
In that dialog box there are four modes, click on explore
Explorer shows many options. In that click on ‘open file’ and select the arff file
Click on edit button which shows weather table on weka.
EXPECTED OUTPUT
 Training Data Set → Weather Table



Procedure for Decision Trees:

Open Start → Programs → Weka-3-4 → Weka-3-4
Open explorer.
Click on open file and select weather.arff
Select Cluster option on the top of the Menu bar.
Select Choose button.
Click on Makedensitybased Cluster.
Click on Start button and output will be displayed on the right side of the window.
EXPECTED OUTPUT






Learning Outcomes:

Learnt about fundamentals of unsupervised learning that is, Clustering techniques
Learnt about exploratory data mining
Learnt about implementation of density-based clustering
Learnt how density-based clustering is different from k-means clustering
VIDEO LINK:



 OTHER RESOURCE MATERIAL/WEB LINKS:

https://www.javatpoint.com/weka-data-mining
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/dbscan-clustering-in-ml-density-based-clustering/
https://www.tutorialspoint.com/weka/weka_quick_guide.htm
REFERENCE BOOK:

Bhatia P. Data mining and data warehousing: principles and practical techniques. Cambridge University Press; 2019 Jun 27.

 








Last modified: Sunday, 12 January 2025, 8:37 PM
Previous activity
Jump to...
Jump to...
Next activity
Contact us
 
Follow us
    
You are logged in as Sanchit Wadehra . (Log out)
